new Parent to dialog messaging API (#1640)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/develop/parent-to-dialog.md

---
title: Passing data and messages to a dialog box from its host page

> description: 'Learn how to pass data to a dialog from the host page'

Reviewer: Could we expand this description to include some more potential SEO terms? Like "Learn how to pass data to a dialog from the host page using the .... APIs ..."?

ms.date: 03/11/2020
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Passing data and messages to a dialog box from its host page

> Microsoft is now making available for preview new APIs for messaging from the host page (defined [here](dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md#open-a-dialog-box-from-a-host-page)) to the dialog box.

Reviewer: Can we shift the tone of this from a preview announcement to more of a feature description?

> [!Important]
>

> > - The APIs are in preview. They are available to developers for experimentation; but they should not be used in a production add-in. Until this API is released, use the techniques described in [Pass information to the dialog box](dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md#pass-information-to-the-dialog-box) in production add-ins.

Reviewer: We have two "include" files for preview APIs ([using-preview-apis-host.md](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr/blob/master/docs/includes/using-preview-apis-host.md) and [using-preview-apis.md](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr/blob/master/docs/includes/using-preview-apis.md)). Could we use those here? It might also be beneficial to roll the Office 365 Insiders information into those includes.

Author: I've added the relevant include. As for moving the Insiders information into the includes, I'm reluctant to do that as part of this PR. There may be places where the includes are used that don't require Insiders.

> - The APIs described in this article require Office 365 (the subscription version of Office). You should use the latest monthly version and build from the Insiders channel. You need to be an Office Insider to get this version. For more information, see [Be an Office Insider](https://products.office.com/office-insider?tab=tab-1). Please note that when a build graduates to the production semi-annual channel, support for preview features is turned off for that build.

> > - The APIs are only supported in Excel during the preview.

Reviewer: Won't the APIs only be supported in Excel after the preview too? Or is part of the GA criteria multi-host support?

Author: It is uncertain at this time when these APIs will be made available in other hosts. It is possible that will happen during preview, at GA, or even after preview. All we know now is that in the initial preview they are supported only in Excel.

> ## Use messageChild() from the host page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use `messageChild()` from the host page
```

> When you call the Office dialog API to open a dialog box, a [Dialog](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog) object is returned and should be assigned to a variable which typically has greater scope than the [displayDialogAsync](/javascript/api/office/office.ui#displaydialogasync-startaddress--callback-)

Reviewer: Grammar nits for your consideration:
```suggestion
When you call the Office dialog API to open a dialog box, a [Dialog](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog) object is returned. It should be assigned to a variable, which typically has greater scope than the [displayDialogAsync](/javascript/api/office/office.ui#displaydialogasync-startaddress--callback-)
```

> method because the object will be referenced in other methods. The following is an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method because the object will be referenced by other methods. The following is an example:
```

```javascript
var dialog;
Office.context.ui.displayDialogAsync('https://myDomain/myDialog.html',
    function (asyncResult) {
        dialog = asyncResult.value;
        dialog.addEventHandler(Office.EventType.DialogMessageReceived, processMessage);
    }
);

function processMessage(arg) {
    dialog.close();

  // message processing code goes here;

}
```

> This `Dialog` object has a `messageChild` method that will send any string, or stringified data, to the dialog box. This raises a `DialogParentMessageReceived` event in the dialog box. Your code should handle this event. (See next section.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `Dialog` object has a `messageChild` method that sends any string, or stringified data, to the dialog box. This raises a `DialogParentMessageReceived` event in the dialog box. Your code should handle this event, as shown in the next section.
```

(I think it would also be valid to link to the next section, to make it very obvious to what you're referring.)

In the following example, `sheetPropertiesChanged` sends newly changed Excel worksheet properties to the dialog box.

```javascript
function sheetPropertiesChanged() {
    var messageToDialog = JSON.stringify({
                               name: "My Sheet",
                               position: 2

>                            });

Reviewer: Can you add something about why these values are being passed? Just to make it clear this is filler data, nothing a user should actually copy.

    dialog.messageChild(messageToDialog);
}
```

## Handle DialogParentMessageReceived in the dialog box

> In the dialog box's JavaScript, register a handler for the `DialogParentMessageReceived` event. This would typically be done in the [Office.onReady or Office.initialize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the dialog box's JavaScript, register a handler for the `DialogParentMessageReceived` event. This is typically done in the [Office.onReady or Office.initialize
```

methods](initialize-add-in.md). The following is an example:

```javascript
Office.onReady()
    .then(function() {
        Office.context.ui.addHandlerAsync(
            Office.EventType.DialogParentMessageReceived,
            onMessageFromParent);
    });
```

> Then, of course, define the `onMessageFromParent` handler. The following code continues the example from the preceding section. Note that Office passes an argument to the handler and that the `message` property of argument object contains the string from the host page. In this example, the message is reconverted to an object and jQuery is used to set the top heading of the dialog to match the new worksheet name.

Reviewer: Probably don't want to say "of course" (if we're writing it, there's a reason they'll need to read it instead of intuiting the next step.
```suggestion
Then, define the `onMessageFromParent` handler. The following code continues the example from the preceding section. Note that Office passes an argument to the handler and that the `message` property of argument object contains the string from the host page. In this example, the message is reconverted to an object and jQuery is used to set the top heading of the dialog to match the new worksheet name.
```
